# Mission 8: Hakuna Fermata 

## Barbie: a Pomodoro Experience

My piece is titled "Barbie: A Pomodoro Experience" because as I started to finalize the music, it began to remind of of the sparkly, mystical music that often plays in the beginning of an animated Barbie movie (such as Barbie as the Princess and the Pauper or Barbie as Rapunzel." This video isn't actually a Pomdoro study video, but the combination of music and nature reminded me of Pomodoro study videos, and I thought it would be a fun name. 


A common part of the songs I enjoy studying or relaxing to are that they are fairly repetitive, but change and are surprising at times. This was one of the major ideas behind my piece. I kept a very similar pattern and chord structure throughout my piece, and altered it to create variety and more of a story. 

The most important part of my piece is the “play_inverted_sequence” function. This function accepts 4 chords as input, and plays each chord, followed directly by its inverted chord. I took this idea from the Chill Music Quickstart page, and the idea that using inverted chords helps to make a piece flow and seem peaceful. I did a lot of experimentation with this function, and what values of attack, release, and sleep times worked well. I think we talked about this in class, but these values were really important in ensuring that the notes in my piece flowed together and were relaxing without completely blending together and becoming a mess.

There are several different threads going on in my piece. The first thread calls “play_inverted_sequence” many different times, on different combinations of notes. As I was playing around in SonicPi, I found that I did not have a great intuition of what notes and chords sounded good together. In this part of my piece, I implemented the “4 chord” idea that we talked about in class. I did this by calling my “play_inverted_sequence” function on the 4 chords that comprise a lot of popular songs.  This helped ensure that my music sounded good, and the inversion of the chords added a better flow and mystical feeling. I used the 4 chord progression from the Axis of Awesome video (which is in D Major), along with a couple other 4 chord progressions in C major. I like the way this key change sounds, but am not sure if it is a good choice in terms of music theory. I also looked into what the different ordering of 4 chords sounds can convey. Changing the order of these chords can show an optimistic, pessimistic, or more neutral feeling, so as I played the different 4 chord sequences, I tried to order them to tell something resembling a story.  

Another thread added in random notes in the same scale as most the chords I was using (the C Major scale). On every 8th beat, a random note from C Major was selected and played with a specific attack value. I incorporated this function to try to add more surprising and random notes, while making sure that they sounded ok with the more prominent music. We talked a lot in class about the idea of taking something familiar, and making it surprising, and this is what I hoped to do with this more random aspect of the piece.

Two of the threads handle the adding of nature noises to my piece. I selected these nature sounds after completing the chords/background music. I wanted to add to the chill and slightly mystical feeling of the piece, and I thought a light storm was a good way to incorporate that.  There is a light rain sound that plays the entire piece. I chose to include a constant nature sound because the audio I find most relaxing is often rain and thunder sounds. There is also a thread that adds thunder and storm noises to the audio at random intervals, so that the thunder would sound more naturally placed. 

## Sources
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%E2%80%93V%E2%80%93vi%E2%80%93IV_progression
